# Heroku experiment template

A starter pack for running online experiments on Heroku using Psiturk or Prolific.

## Setup

### Dependencies

Make sure you have all of these installed before continuing:

- Python 3.9+ 
- Postgres: https://www.postgresql.org/download/ or `brew install postgresql`
- Heroku CLI: https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/heroku-cli

### Installation

Create a new repository using this repository as a template (on github there is a green "Use this template" button at the top of the page). Clone the new repository to your machine and `cd` into the directory from a terminal.

Create a virtual environment and install the requirements with the following commands. We install pandas separately because we only need it locally (for data preprocessing).
```
python3 -m venv env
source env/bin/activate   
pip install -r requirements.txt
pip install pandas
```

### Update university- and app-specific information

Do a search for "bodacious" to find places where you should change info. Note that you only need to worry about ad.html and config.txt if you're running on MTurk. Put your IRB-approved consent form in templates/consent.html.

Run `make dev` in a terminal. Then visit [http://localhost:22362?debug=true](http://localhost:22362). The "22362" is set in config.txt and you can change that value if you like (e.g., to allow previewing multiple experiments at once).

### Deploy to Heroku

Make sure you're logged into the correct Heroku account using the Heroku CLI (use `heroku auth` to see useful commands).

Create a new app and add a Postgres database. **Note: these commands must be run from the project directory** (the one containing this README.md). You should probably change the name of your app to something less silly.
```
heroku create dizzydangdoozle --buildpack heroku/python
heroku git:remote -a dizzydangdoozle
heroku addons:create heroku-postgresql
```
You can confirm that the heroku site has been created with the `heroku domains`, which will print the domain of your shiny new website!

Make some changes and commit them using git. You can then deploy all commited changes with
```
git push heroku master
```

This makes heroku build your app, which can take a minute or so. Then your website will be updated.

## Developing your experiment

- The structure of the experiment is defined in static/js/experiment.js
- [Create custom jsPsych plugins](https://www.jspsych.org/overview/plugins/#creating-a-new-plugin) if needed.
- If you have multiple conditions, use the CONDITION variable. The number of conditions is set in config.txt. You can manually specify the condition while debugging by adding `&condition=1` to the URL.
- Add your new plugins and any other dependencies to templates/exp.html.
- Edit, refresh, edit, refresh, edit, refresh....
    - TIP: to make this slightly less painful, you can add e.g. `&skip=3` to skip the first three entries in the timeline.

Note: **data will not be saved when testing locally**. If you want to save data while debugging, you will need to run the experiment on heroku and pass the relevant URL parameters, for example:

https://dizzydangdoozle-4cd6ae16d401.herokuapp.com/exp?mode=live&workerId=debug123&hitId=prolific&assignmentId=debug123

If you don't want to overwrite the previously saved debug data, you have to change the workerId or assignmentId.

## Posting your study

First, update codeversion in config.txt. This is how the database knows to keep different versions of your study separate. What you do next depends on the recruitment service.

### Prolific

Create the study with Prolific's web interface. 

1. Set the URL to. `https://<YOUR_APP_DOMAIN>.herokuapp.com/consent?mode=live&workerId={{%PROLIFIC_PID%}}&hitId=prolific&assignmentId={{%SESSION_ID%}}`. Make sure to replace `<YOUR_APP_DOMAIN>` in the link with the current domain, which you can see with the `heroku domains` command.
2. Make sure "I'll use URL parameters" is checked.
3. Select "I'll redirect them using a URL". Copy the code and set it as `PROLIFIC_CODE` in experiment.js, e.g. `const PROLIFIC_CODE = "6A5FDC7A"`.
4. As always, do a dry run with Prolific's "preview" mechanism before actually posting the study. I also recommend running only a couple people on your first go in case there are unforseen issues.

### MTurk

I haven't used MTurk in a while, so I'm not sure this actually works, but...

Start the psiturk shell with the command `psiturk`. Run `hit create 30 1.50 0.5` to create 30 hits, each of which pays $1.50 and has a 30 minute time limit. You'll get a warning about your server not running. You are using an external server process, so you can press `y` to bypass the error message.

## Downloading data

To download data for a given version run

```
bin/fetch_datay.py <VERSION>
```

If you don't provide a version, it will use the current one in config.txt.

You can pass the `--debug` flag to download data that wasn't generated by an actual participant (e.g. when you were testing the experiment)

The raw psiturk data is put in data/raw. This data has identifiers and should not be shared. Make sure not to accidentally put it on github (data is in .gitignore so this shouldn't be a problem). The mapping from the anonymized "wid" to "workerid" is saved in data/raw/<VERSION>/identifiers.csv.

Minimally processed (and de-identified) data is written as JSON files in data/processed.

## Contributors

- Fred Callaway
- Carlos Correa
